CSS3, the latest version of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), does not have "tags" like HTML. Instead, CSS3 has selectors, properties, values, and rules that define how elements on a webpage should be styled and displayed. Here's an overview of CSS3 components:

1. Selectors
Selectors are used to target HTML elements that you want to style. Here are some common CSS3 selectors:

- Universal Selector (*): Selects all elements.
- Element Selector (div, p, h1): Selects elements by their tag name.
- Class Selector (.classname): Selects elements with a specific class.
- ID Selector (#idname): Selects an element with a specific ID.
- Attribute Selector ([type="text"]): Selects elements with specific attributes.
- Pseudo-class Selector (:hover, :focus): Selects elements based on their state.
- Pseudo-element Selector (::before, ::after): Selects parts of elements, like the first letter.

2. Properties
Properties define what aspect of the element you are styling, such as color, font size, or layout. CSS3 introduced many new properties, enhancing control over styles.

Color and Background Properties:
- color: Text color.
- background-color: Background color of an element.
- background-image: Sets an image as the background.

Text and Font Properties:

- font-size: Size of the text.
- font-family: Font type (e.g., Arial, Helvetica).
- text-align: Aligns text (left, right, center).
- text-decoration: Adds decorations like underline, overline.

Box Model Properties:

- width/height: Sets the width and height of an element.
- padding: Space inside the element, between content and border.
- margin: Space outside the element, creating distance between elements.
- border: Specifies the border around elements.

Positioning and Layout Properties:

- display: Defines the display type (block, inline, flex, grid).
- position: Sets positioning (relative, absolute, fixed, sticky).
- top, right, bottom, left: Offsets the position of elements.
- float: Floats elements to the left or right.

Flexbox and Grid Properties:

- display: flex: Enables flexible box layout.
- flex-direction: Defines direction (row, column).
- grid-template-columns: Defines grid columns.
- grid-gap: Space between grid items.

Animation and Transition Properties:

- animation: Defines animations on elements.
- transition: Specifies transition effects.
- transform: Applies transformations like rotate, scale.

Others:

- opacity: Sets the transparency level.
- z-index: Controls stacking order of elements.

3. Values
Values are assigned to properties, defining how the property will be applied:

- Color Values: (#FF5733, rgba(255, 87, 51, 0.5))
- Length Units: (px, %, em, rem, vw, vh)
- Keywords: (block, none, flex, bold, italic)
- URLs: (url('image.jpg'))

4. Rules
Rules are composed of selectors and declarations that together style an element. A rule consists of:

selector {
  property: value;
}

Example:
p {
  color: blue;
  font-size: 16px;
}

5. Media Queries
Media queries allow for responsive design by applying different styles based on screen size 
or device capabilities:

@media (max-width: 600px) {
  body {
    background-color: lightblue;
  }
}
CSS3 expands the power of CSS, enabling more complex styling and layout possibilities.



CSS3 Selectors:
Selectors are used to target elements in the HTML document.

Basic Selectors:

Universal Selector (*): Selects all elements.
Type Selector (element): Selects elements by their tag name (e.g., div, p).
Class Selector (.classname): Selects elements with a specific class attribute.
ID Selector (#idname): Selects an element with a specific ID.
Attribute Selector ([attr=value]): Selects elements based on attribute values.
Combinator Selectors:

Descendant Selector (A B): Selects elements B that are descendants of A.
Child Selector (A > B): Selects elements B that are direct children of A.
Adjacent Sibling Selector (A + B): Selects the first sibling B that comes immediately after A.
General Sibling Selector (A ~ B): Selects all siblings B that come after A.
Pseudo-class Selectors:

:hover: Selects an element when the mouse is over it.
:focus: Selects an element when it has focus (e.g., input field).
:nth-child(n): Selects the nth child of a parent element.
:first-child: Selects the first child of a parent element.
:last-child: Selects the last child of a parent element.
Pseudo-element Selectors:

::before: Inserts content before an element's content.
::after: Inserts content after an element's content.
::first-letter: Selects the first letter of an element.
::first-line: Selects the first line of an element.
2. CSS3 Properties:
Properties define what aspect of an element is being styled.

Color and Background Properties:

color: Sets the color of text.
background-color: Specifies the background color of an element.
background-image: Sets an image as the background.
background-size: Specifies the size of background images.
background-position: Positions the background image.
Text and Font Properties:

font-family: Sets the font type.
font-size: Specifies the size of the font.
font-weight: Sets the weight (boldness) of the font.
text-align: Aligns the text inside an element.
text-decoration: Adds decoration to text (underline, overline).
text-transform: Changes the case of the text (uppercase, lowercase).
Box Model Properties:

width / height: Sets the width and height of an element.
padding: Adds space inside an element's border.
margin: Adds space outside an element's border.
border: Sets the border around an element.
box-shadow: Adds shadow to an element.
Positioning and Layout Properties:

display: Specifies the display behavior of an element (block, inline).
position: Positions elements (static, relative, absolute, fixed, sticky).
top, right, bottom, left: Positions elements based on their containing block.
float: Floats elements to the left or right.
clear: Clears floated elements.
z-index: Sets the stacking order of positioned elements.
Flexbox Properties:

display: flex: Enables flexible box layout.
flex-direction: Specifies the direction of flex items (row, column).
justify-content: Aligns flex items along the main axis (center, space-between).
align-items: Aligns flex items along the cross axis.
Grid Properties:

display: grid: Enables grid layout.
grid-template-columns: Defines columns in a grid layout.
grid-template-rows: Defines rows in a grid layout.
grid-gap: Sets the space between grid items.
Animation and Transition Properties:

animation: Defines an animation sequence.
animation-name: Specifies the name of the animation.
transition: Specifies the transition between property changes.
transform: Applies transformations like scaling, rotating, or skewing.
Others:

opacity: Sets the transparency level of an element.
overflow: Specifies how to handle content that overflows an element's box.
cursor: Changes the cursor when hovering over an element.
3. CSS3 Values:
Values define how properties are applied.

Color Values:

Named Colors: (red, blue, green).
Hexadecimal: (#FF5733).
RGB/RGBA: (rgb(255, 87, 51), rgba(255, 87, 51, 0.5)).
HSL/HSLA: (hsl(0, 100%, 50%), hsla(0, 100%, 50%, 0.5)).
Length Units:

Absolute Units: (px, pt, cm).
Relative Units: (%, em, rem, vw, vh).
Keywords:

Positioning: (static, relative, absolute, fixed, sticky).
Display: (block, inline, none, flex, grid).
Visibility: (visible, hidden).
Font Styles: (normal, italic, bold).
Animation Values:

Timing Functions: (ease, linear, ease-in-out).
Duration: (1s, 500ms).
Delay: (0s, 2s).
Iteration Count: (infinite, 1).
4. CSS3 Rules:
Rules are sets of CSS declarations that define the style of an element.

CSS Rule Structure:

A rule consists of a selector and a declaration block.
Declaration Block contains property-value pairs inside curly braces ({}).
Rule Examples:

Grouping Rules: Groups multiple selectors with the same styles (e.g., h1, h2 { color: red; }).
Media Queries: Allows different styles for different devices (e.g., screen size).
Keyframes: Defines the stages of an animation (e.g., @keyframes myAnimation {}).
Import Rules: Imports other CSS files (e.g., @import url('styles.css');).